Update the TM Using Print Layout lesson to QGIS 3 (#5669)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/training_manual/map_composer/map_composer.rst

Luckily, QGIS can export its map file to a format that anyone's
computer can read, as well as printing out the map if you have a
printer connected.

> Both exporting and printing is handled via the *Print Layout*.

Author: Because it is a QGIS tool.

> * Click on the :menuselection:`Project --> Layout Manager` menu entry to open

Author: Sorry, missed this one. Will try to fix.

In this example, the composition was already the way we wanted it. Ensure that
yours is as well.

#. Right-click on the sheet in the central part of the layout window
   and choose :guilabel:`Page properties...` in the context menu.
   Check that the values in the :guilabel:`Item Properties` tab are set
   to the following:

   * :guilabel:`Size`: ``A4``
   * :guilabel:`Orientation`: ``Landscape``

   Now you've got the page layout the way you wanted it, but this page is still
   blank. It clearly lacks a map. Let's fix that!

> #. Click on the :guilabel:`Add New Map` button: |addMap|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click on the |addMap| :sup:`Add New Map` button: 
```
I really much prefer this style, and there's no guilabel-like feature here (unless you take the menu's road). there are only icons with tooltip.

   With this tool activated, you'll be able to place a map on the page.

#. Click and drag a box on the blank page:

   .. figure:: img/drag_add_map.png
      :align: center

   The map will appear on the page.

#. Move the map by clicking and dragging it around:

   .. figure:: img/move_map.png
      :align: center

> #. Resize it by clicking and dragging the boxes in the corners:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Resize it by clicking and dragging the boxes on the edges:
```

   .. figure:: img/resize_map.png
      :align: center

   .. note::  Your map may look a lot different, of course!
      This depends on how your own project is set up.
      But not to worry! These instructions are general, so they will
      work the same regardless of what the map itself looks like.

#. Be sure to leave margins along the edges, and a space along the
   top for the title.

#. Zoom in and out on the page (but not the map!) by using these
   buttons:

   |zoomFullExtent| |zoomIn| |zoomOut|

#. Zoom and pan the map in the main QGIS window.
   You can also pan the map using the :guilabel:`Move item content`
   tool: |moveItemContent|

>    When zooming in, the map view will not refresh by itself.
>    This is so that it doesn't waste your time redrawing the map while
>    you're zooming the page to where you want it, but it also means
>    that if you zoom in or out, the map will be at the wrong
>    resolution and will look ugly or unreadable.
> 

Reviewer: This is a 2.x behavior
```suggestion
   The map view updates as you zoom in or zoom out.
```

> #. Force the map to refresh by clicking this button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If, for any reason, the map view does not refresh correctly,
   you can force the map to refresh by clicking this button:
```
If you want to expand on the reasons of update delay, feel free...

In this example, the composition was already the way we wanted it. Ensure that
yours is as well.

#. Right-click on the sheet in the central part of the layout window
   and choose :guilabel:`Page properties...` in the context menu.
   Check that the values in the :guilabel:`Item Properties` tab are
   set to the following:

   * :guilabel:`Size`: ``A4``
   * :guilabel:`Orientation`: ``Landscape``

   Now you've got the page layout the way you wanted it, but this
   page is still blank.
   It clearly lacks a map. Let's fix that!

#. Click on the |addMap| :sup:`Add New Map` button. 

   With this tool activated, you will be able to place a map on the
   page.

> #. Click and drag a box on the blank page:

Reviewer: Actually, before you ever click on the map, you have the "new item properties" dialog to deal with.
We should indicate the map size and placement to use here

#. Zoom and pan the map in the main QGIS window.
   You can also pan the map using the |moveItemContent|
   :sup:`Move item content` tool.

   The map view updates as you zoom in or zoom out.
#. If, for any reason, the map view does not refresh correctly,
   you can force the map to refresh by clicking this button:

   .. figure:: img/refresh_button.png
      :align: center

Remember that the size and position you've given the map doesn't need
to be final.
You can always come back and change it later if you're not satisfied.
For now, you need to ensure that you've saved your work on this map. Because a *Print Layout* in QGIS is part of the main map file, you
will need to save your main project.
Go to the main QGIS window (the one with the :guilabel:`Layers` panel
and all the other familiar elements you were working with before),
and save your project from there as usual.

|basic| |FA| Adding a Title
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now your map is looking good on the page, but your readers/users are not being told what's going on yet.
They need some context, which is what you'll provide for them by

> adding map elements.

Author: Modified in #5672

First, let us add a title.

#. Click on the |label| :sup:`Add Label` button

> #. Click on the page, above the map, and a label will appear at the

Reviewer: new item properties dialog again to play with. They SHOULD be advised to use a lower height here otherwise they get a label item with the map height

Author: The default height seems to be OK as a starter (does not seem to get the "map height").

   top of the map.

#. Resize it and place it in the top center of the page.
   It can be resized and moved in the same way that you resized and
   moved the map.

   As you move the title, you'll notice that guidelines appear to
   help you position the title in the center of the page.

   However, there is also a tool in the Actions Toolbar to help
   position the title relative to the map (not the page):

   |alignLeft|

#. Click the map to select it
#. Hold in :kbd:`Shift` on your keyboard and click on the label so
   that both the map and the label are selected.
#. Look for the |alignLeft| :sup:`Align selected items left` button
   and click on the dropdown arrow next to it to reveal the

>    positioning options and click :guilabel:`Align center`:

Author: Can't find an |alignCenter| substitution. |alignHCenter| ?

   .. figure:: img/align_center_dropdown.png
      :align: center

>    To make sure that you don't accidentally move these elements

Author: This should be OK.

#. In the :guilabel:`Item Properties` tab, you'll find the
   :guilabel:`Legend items` panel.

> #. Select the :guilabel:`training_data_buildings` entry.

Author: This is the name it gets when you load it from the geopackage training_data.gpg. And that is the only place where I have found buildings.

.. note::  Did you remember to save your work often?

Finally the map is ready for export! You'll see the export buttons
near the top left corner of the layout window:

  |filePrint| |saveMapAsImage| |saveAsSVG|
  |saveAsPDF|

The button on the left is the *Print Layout* button, which
interfaces with a printer.
Since the printer options will differ depending on the model of
printer that you're working with, it's probably better to consult the
printer manual or a general guide to printing for more information on
this topic.

The other three buttons allow you to export the map page to a file. There are three export formats to choose from:

- *Export as Image*
- *Export as SVG*
- *Export as PDF*

Exporting as an image will give you a selection of various common
image formats to choose from.
This is probably the simplest option, but the image it creates is
"dead" and difficult to edit.

> The other two options are more common.

Author: I did not touch this. Have now removed the sentence.

If you're sending the map to a cartographer (who may want to edit the
map for publication), it's best to export as an SVG. SVG stands for
"Scalable Vector Graphic", and can be imported to programs like
`Inkscape <https://inkscape.org/>`_ or other vector image editing
software.

If you need to send the map to a client, it's most common to use a
PDF, because it's easier to set up printing options for a PDF.
Some cartographers may prefer PDF as well, if they have a program
that allows them to import and edit this format.

For our purposes, we're going to use PDF.

#. Click the |saveAsPDF| :sup:`Export as PDF` button
#. Choose a save location and a file name as usual.
#. Click :guilabel:`Save`.

|IC|
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#. Close the layout window
#. Save your map

> #. Find your exported PDF using your operating system's file manager

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the order here. But in the layout window, there's already a link that shows as soon as the PDF is created. They just have to click on it to open the pdf folder.
